to identify dead ends quickly, it becomes necessary to understand how we will move through layers
for end points, this is easy but for repeated segments, it could be tricky
what's needed to connect endpoints is a "minimum viable path"
Theorem P = any room that is strictly unnecessary can be added later without reducing the potential path set


we could connect all layers into a single graph
but intentionally repeat some layers multiple times
the number of times we repeat say the two-way layer could be static (4-5) or repeat until no new rooms gain a "path" to an endpoint
there is also the issue of repeated rooms in a path
this is irrelevant since any path that includes itself twice could work fine including itself only once accoirding to Theorem P

this also means that we can remove any path from the layer that exits into any door type that could connect to any start it has

this would leave us with layers that cannot loop into themselves, making it easier to identify when all paths have reached a dead end or an endpoint

from this minimum viable paths layer, we can use it to bridge edge points and dynamic edit it to exclude used paths during the walk
so we do not repeat paths in the same walk

may need t oinstead construct a unique mvp layer for each type of end point and each type of start point

constructing levels with multiple branches could be even trickier? could use similar theorem but where to end it?
could potentially go on forever... well thats right we dont actually need all possible paths
just the minimum viable ones
and we can construct branchs separately and insert them later if needed

or wait, can we?
it would be harder to find a spot to slot in a branch segment (front and back need to match) than to slot in just a start branch


MVP types:

Entrance > John (no branch level)
Entrance > Start Branch
Start Branch > End Branch
End Branch > Start Branch (Allows multiple branches in a level, like above)
Entrance Branch > John Branch
Entrance Branch > End Branch
Start Branch > John Branch
End Branch > John


So in summary:

Construct Minimum Viable Path (MVP) layers to connect end point layers
each MVP layer:
	* is made up of multiple of the underlying layer
	* lacks redundant or "unnecessary" rooms
	* cannot have repeated rooms in its paths, following the rules below


MVP Construction Rules:
	1. Disconnect paths that use a repeated exit (an exit type appearing previously in the path)
	2. Disconnect paths that could connect to a previous entrance (could we collapse with above rule somehow?)
	
Algorithm:
	For all initial transition nodes:
	1. Flow forward along each path.
	1b. Terminate and remove edge that disobeys the above rules
	
	For all final paths:
	2. Flow backwards from end of paths
	2b. Terminate if path ends at exit transition node
	2c. Remove edge if there are no other neighbors to the edge start (IE, possibly supporting another path)


Summary:
	Flow Forward: Grow path until redundant exit
	Flow Backward: Shrink path until branch
	Flow Backward: Shrink continues past branch if all other branches have already shrunk
	Repeat: Add a copy of just used layer and repeat the process


in the end not all paths terminate at the final layer's end branch
we use a copy of the layer we just processed because all paths that failed to grow in this iteration cannot possibly do so in the next

we also need to trim initial nodes that have no connection to any valid exit path 
